---
layout: policy
title:  GDPR Procedure
date:   2019-05-28 17:39:27 +0100
name: GDPR
description: Data Protection
image:
   src: /assets/img/folders.jpg
categories: policies
---

In order to provide a quality early years and childcare service and comply with legislation, I will need to request information from parents about their child and family. Some of this will be personal data.

I take families’ privacy seriously, and in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), I will process any personal data according to the seven principles below:
1. I must have a lawful reason for collecting personal data, and must do it in a fair and transparent way. I will be clear about what data I am collecting, and why.
2. I must only use the data for the reason it is initially obtained. This means that I may not use a person’s data to market a product or service to them that is unconnected to the reasons for which they shared the data with me in the first place.
3. I must not collect any more data than is necessary. I will only collect the data I need to hold in order to do the job for which I have collected data.
4. I will ensure that data is accurate, and ask parents to check annually and confirm that the data held is still accurate.
5. I will not keep data any longer than needed. I must only keep the data for as long as is needed to complete the tasks it was collected for.
6. I must protect the personal data. I am responsible for ensuring that I, and anyone else charged with using the data, processes and stores it securely.
7. I will be accountable for the data. This means that I will be able to show how I am complying with the law.

<br>

#### Procedure
I have registered with the Information Commissioner’s Office, the UK’s independent authority set up to uphold information rights in the public interest, promoting openness by public bodies and data privacy for individuals.

I expect parents to keep private and confidential any sensitive information they may accidentally learn about my family, setting or the other children and families attending my setting, unless it is a child protection issue.

I will be asking parents for personal data about themselves and their child/ren in order to deliver a childcare service. I am required to hold and use this personal data in order to comply with the statutory framework for the early years foundation stage, Ofsted, Department for Education and my local authority.

###### **Subject Access**

Parents have the right to inspect records about their child at any time. This will be provided without delay and no later than one month after the request, which should be made in writing. I will ask parents to regularly check that the data is correct and update it where necessary.

###### **Storage**

I will keep all paper-based records about children and their families securely locked away [you may want to say how – e.g. locked filing box].

If I keep records relating to individual children on my computer, externally or in cloud storage such as iCloud, Google Drive or Dropbox, including digital photos or videos, I will obtain parents’ permission. This also includes CCTV. I will store the information securely, for example, in password-protected files, to prevent viewing of the information by others with access to the computer. Firewall and Virus Protection Software are in place.

If I store any records using a digital solution such as Tapestry, I will ensure I have carried out due diligence to ensure they are compliant with GDPR.

###### **Information Sharing**

I am expected to share information with other childcare providers if a child also attends another setting.

I am also required to share information with Southend-on-Sea Borough Council, in regards to the childcare and early years entitlements.

I will not share any information with anyone without parents’ consent, unless there is a child protection concern.
Ofsted may require access to my records at any time.

###### **Record Keeping**

I record all accidents in an accident book.

I will notify PACEY of any accidents which may result in an insurance claim, e.g. an accident resulting in a doctor or hospital visit. PACEY will log and acknowledge receipt of the correspondence and forward the information to the company providing my public liability insurance policy to enable a claim number to be allocated.

I will inform Ofsted, the local child protection agency and the Health and Safety Executive of any significant injuries, accidents or deaths as soon as possible.

I record all significant incidents in an incident book and I will share these with parents so that together we can work to resolve any issues.

I will only share information if it is in a child’s best interests to do so. For example in a medical emergency I will share medical information with a healthcare professional. If I am worried about a child’s welfare I have a duty of care to follow the Local 

Safeguarding Children Board procedures and make a referral. Where possible I will discuss concerns with you before making a referral.

###### **Safe Disposal of Data**

I am required by law to keep some data for some time after a child has left the setting. I have a review plan in place and ensure that 
any data is disposed of appropriately and securely.

###### **Suspected Breach**

If I suspect that data has been accessed unlawfully, I will inform the relevant parties immediately and report to the Information Commissioner’s Office within 72 hours. I will keep a record of any data breach.

<table class="table table-bordered mt-5 mb-5">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Childminder's Name </th>
      <td>Marie Smale</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Date the Policy was Written</th>
      <td>28th May 2018</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Date the Policy was Last Reviewed</th>
      <td>28th May 2019</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Date the Policy is Due for Review</th>
      <td>28th May 2020</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

**This policy supports the following requirements and standards:**

**England**  
   Meeting the Early Years Foundation Stage Safeguarding and Welfare Requirements.  

**Information and records**
